docs: Add documentation for large version jump upgrades (#8678)
hashicorp/consul: website/pages/docs/upgrading/instructions/general-process.mdx

**1.** Issue the following command to discover which server is currently the leader:

```
consul operator raft list-peers
```

You should receive output similar to this (exact formatting and content may differ based on version):

```
Node       ID                                    Address         State     Voter  RaftProtocol
dc1-node1  ae15858f-7f5f-4dcb-b7d5-710fdcdd2745  10.11.0.2:8300  leader    true   3
dc1-node2  20e6be1b-f1cb-4aab-929f-f7d2d43d9a96  10.11.0.3:8300  follower  true   3
dc1-node3  658c343b-8769-431f-a71a-236f9dbb17b3  10.11.0.4:8300  follower  true   3
```

Take note of which agent is the leader.

**2.** Copy the new `consul` binary onto your servers and replace the existing
binary with the new one.

**3.** Perform a rolling restart of Consul on your servers, leaving the leader agent
for last. Only restart one server at a time. After restarting each server, validate
that it has rejoined the cluster and is in sync with the leader by issuing the `consul info` command,
and checking whether the `commit_index` and `last_log_index` fields have the same value.
If done properly, this should avoid an unexpected leadership election due to loss of quorum.

> ~> It is important to issue a `consul leave` command on each server node when shutting

Reviewer: Recommending moving this detail to part of step #3. This makes sure someone doesn't do a leave as part of the rolling restart of Consul.

Perform a rolling restart of Consul on your servers, leaving the leader agent for last. This means running the `consul leave` command on your server agent, and then use a service management system (e.g., systemd, upstart, etc.) to restart the system. If you are not using a service management system, you must restart the agent manually. To validate that the agent has rejoined the cluster and is in sync with the leader, issuing the `consul info` command, and check whether the `commit_index` and `last_log_index` fields have the same value. If done properly, this should avoid an unexpected leadership election due to loss of quorum.

Reviewer: I noticed that sometimes you have commands inline on the instructions, and some times the command is a stand alone. I made this recommendation where CLI commands are on their own lines as part of the step

Author: 👍 I like that change. Incorporating it.

the correct version by issuing:

```
consul members
```

You should receive output similar to this:

```
Node       Address         Status  Type    Build  Protocol  DC
dc1-node1  10.11.0.2:8301  alive   server  1.8.3  2         dc1
dc1-node2  10.11.0.3:8301  alive   server  1.8.3  2         dc1
dc1-node3  10.11.0.4:8301  alive   server  1.8.3  2         dc1
```

Also double-check the raft state to make sure there is a leader and sufficient voters:

```
consul operator raft list-peers
```

You should receive output similar to this:

```
Node       ID                                    Address         State     Voter  RaftProtocol
dc1-node1  ae15858f-7f5f-4dcb-b7d5-710fdcdd2745  10.11.0.2:8300  leader    true   3
dc1-node2  20e6be1b-f1cb-4aab-929f-f7d2d43d9a96  10.11.0.3:8300  follower  true   3
dc1-node3  658c343b-8769-431f-a71a-236f9dbb17b3  10.11.0.4:8300  follower  true   3
```

**5.** Set your `log_level` back to what you had it at prior to the upgrade and issue
`consul reload` again.

## Troubleshooting

Most problems with upgrading occur due to either failing to upgrade the leader agent last,

> or due to failing to wait for a follower agent to fully rejoin a cluster before moving

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or failing to wait for a follower agent to fully rejoin a cluster before moving
```

on to another server. This can cause a loss of quorum and occasionally can result in
all of your servers attempting to kick off leadership elections endlessly without ever
reaching a quorum and electing a leader.

Most of these problems can be solved by following the steps outlined in our
[Outage Recovery](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/recovery-outage) document.
If you are still having trouble after trying the recovery steps outlined there,

> then these options for further assistance are available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then the following options for further assistance are available:
```

dc1-node3  658c343b-8769-431f-a71a-236f9dbb17b3  10.11.0.4:8300  follower  true   3
```

**5.** Set your `log_level` back to what you had it at prior to the upgrade and issue
`consul reload` again.

## Troubleshooting

Most problems with upgrading occur due to either failing to upgrade the leader agent last,
or due to failing to wait for a follower agent to fully rejoin a cluster before moving
on to another server. This can cause a loss of quorum and occasionally can result in
all of your servers attempting to kick off leadership elections endlessly without ever
reaching a quorum and electing a leader.

Most of these problems can be solved by following the steps outlined in our
[Outage Recovery](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/recovery-outage) document.
If you are still having trouble after trying the recovery steps outlined there,
then these options for further assistance are available:

- OSS users without paid support plans can request help in our [Community Forum](https://discuss.hashicorp.com/c/consul/29)
- Enterprise and OSS users with paid support plans can contact [HashiCorp Support](https://support.hashicorp.com/)

> If you end up contacting support, please make sure you include the following information

Reviewer 2: When contacting Hashicorp Support, please include the following information in your ticket:

---
layout: docs
page_title: General Upgrade Process
sidebar_title: General Process
description: >-
  Specific versions of Consul may have additional information about the upgrade
  process beyond the standard flow.
---

# General Upgrade Process

## Introduction

Upgrading Consul is a relatively easy process, but there are some best
practices that you should follow when doing so. Some versions also have

> steps that are specific to that version, so make sure you also look through

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
steps that are specific to that version, so make sure you also review the
```

> our [upgrade instructions](/docs/upgrading/instructions) for the version you're on.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[upgrade instructions](/docs/upgrading/instructions) for the version you're on.
```

## Download the New Version

> The first thing you need to do is download the binary for the new version

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, download the binary for the new version
```

you want.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Binary">

> If you're after the Consul binary, you can find all current and past versions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can find all current and past versions
```

of the OSS and Enterprise releases here:

- https://releases.hashicorp.com/consul

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Docker">

> If you're using Docker containers, then you can find those here:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are using Docker containers, then you can find those here:
```

- **OSS:** https://hub.docker.com/_/consul
- **Enterprise:** https://hub.docker.com/r/hashicorp/consul-enterprise

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Kubernetes">

> If you're using Kubernetes, then please see our documentation for

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are using Kubernetes, then please review our documentation for
```

[Upgrading Consul on Kubernetes](/docs/k8s/operations/upgrading).

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Prepare for the Upgrade

**1.** Take a snapshot:

```
consul snapshot save backup.snap
```

You can inspect the snapshot to ensure if was successful with:

```
consul snapshot inspect backup.snap
```

> You should see output similar to this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Example output:
```

```
ID           2-1182-1542056499724
Size         4115
Index        1182
Term         2
Version      1
```

This will ensure you have a safe fallback option in case something goes wrong. Store
this snapshot somewhere safe. If you would like more information on snapshots, you
can find that here:

- https://www.consul.io/docs/commands/snapshot
- https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/backup-and-restore

**2.** Temporarily modify your Consul configuration so that its [log_level](/docs/agent/options.html#_log_level)

> is set to `debug`. After doing this, run `consul reload` on your servers. This will

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
is set to `debug`. After doing this, issue the `consul reload` command on your servers. This will
```

give you more information to work with in the event something goes wrong.

## Perform the Upgrade

> **1.** Run the following command to see which server is currently the leader:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**1.** Issue the following command to discover which server is currently the leader:
```

```
consul operator raft list-peers
```

> You should see output similar to this (exact formatting and may differ based on version):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You should receive output similar to this (exact formatting and may differ based on version):
```

```
Node       ID                                    Address         State     Voter  RaftProtocol
dc1-node1  ae15858f-7f5f-4dcb-b7d5-710fdcdd2745  10.11.0.2:8300  leader    true   3
dc1-node2  20e6be1b-f1cb-4aab-929f-f7d2d43d9a96  10.11.0.3:8300  follower  true   3
dc1-node3  658c343b-8769-431f-a71a-236f9dbb17b3  10.11.0.4:8300  follower  true   3
```

Take note of which agent is the leader.

**2.** Copy the new `consul` binary onto your servers and replace the existing
binary with the new one.

**3.** Perform a rolling restart of Consul on your servers, leaving the leader agent
for last. Only restart one server at a time. After restarting each server, validate

> that it has rejoined the cluster and is in sync with the leader by running `consul info`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
that it has rejoined the cluster and is in sync with the leader by issuing the `consul info` command,
```

and checking whether the `commit_index` and `last_log_index` fields have the same value.
If done properly, this should avoid an unexpected leadership election due to loss of quorum.

> ~> It's important to run `consul leave` on each server node when shutting

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
~> It's important to issue a `consul leave` command on each server node when shutting
```

Consul down. Make sure your service management system (e.g., systemd, upstart, etc.) is
performing that action. If not, make sure you do it manually or you _will_ end up in a
bad cluster state.

**4.** Double-check that all servers are showing up in the cluster as expected and are on

> the correct version by running:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the correct version by issuing:
```

```
consul members
```

> You should see output similar to this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You should receive output similar to this:
```

```
Node       Address         Status  Type    Build  Protocol  DC
dc1-node1  10.11.0.2:8301  alive   server  1.8.3  2         dc1
dc1-node2  10.11.0.3:8301  alive   server  1.8.3  2         dc1
dc1-node3  10.11.0.4:8301  alive   server  1.8.3  2         dc1
```

Also double-check the raft state to make sure there's a leader and sufficient voters:

```
consul operator raft list-peers
```

> Which should look similar to this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Which should appear similar to this:
```

```
Node       ID                                    Address         State     Voter  RaftProtocol
dc1-node1  ae15858f-7f5f-4dcb-b7d5-710fdcdd2745  10.11.0.2:8300  leader    true   3
dc1-node2  20e6be1b-f1cb-4aab-929f-f7d2d43d9a96  10.11.0.3:8300  follower  true   3
dc1-node3  658c343b-8769-431f-a71a-236f9dbb17b3  10.11.0.4:8300  follower  true   3
```

> **5.** Set your `log_level` back to what you had it at prior to the upgrade and run

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**5.** Set your `log_level` back to what you had it at prior to the upgrade and issue
```

`consul reload` again.

## Troubleshooting

> Most issues with upgrading occur due to either failing to upgrade the leader agent last

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Most problems with upgrading occur due to either failing to upgrade the leader agent last,
```

or due to failing to wait for a follower agent to fully rejoin a cluster before moving
on to another server. This can cause a loss of quorum and occasionally can result in
all of your servers attempting to kick off leadership elections endlessly without ever
reaching a quorum and electing a leader.

Most of these problems can be solved by following the steps outlined in our
[Outage Recovery](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/recovery-outage) document.

> If you're still having trouble after trying the recovery steps outlined there,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are still having trouble after trying the recovery steps outlined there,
```

then you can get further assistance by:

- OSS users without paid support plans can request help in our [Community Forum](https://discuss.hashicorp.com/c/consul/29)
- Enterprise users with paid support plans can contact [HashiCorp Support](https://support.hashicorp.com/)

If you end up contacting support, please make sure you include the following information
in your support ticket:

- Consul version you were upgrading FROM and TO.
- [Debug level logs](/docs/agent/options.html#_log_level) from all servers in the cluster

>   that you're having trouble with. These should include logs from prior to the upgrade attempt

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  that you are having trouble with. These should include logs from prior to the upgrade attempt
```

  up through the current time. If your logs were not set at debug level prior to the

>   upgrade, please include those logs anyways, but also update your config to use debug logs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  upgrade, please include those logs as well. Also, update your config to use debug logs,
```

>   and include logs from after that was done as well.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  and include logs from after that was done.
```
